### “throws” keyword & “try-catch” block in Java

### throws keyword :-
- throws keyword is used to inform the caller method that this method can throw one of the listed type of exceptions.
- throws keyword bypass the generated exceptions from present method to caller method.
- If caller method wants to handle the exceptions then it has to use try-catch block.
- throws keyword only used for the `Checked Exception` or `Compile Time Exception`.
- By using the throws, it allows to compile our program. If we do not use then it will show the error and program will not compile. However, program can not execute because exception will be occurred. if you want to handle the exception then you need to use the try-catch block.
- **NOTE** : `throws keyword cannot handle the exceptions.`
- Syntax : `throws ExceptionClassName, ExceptionClassName,-,-`
  - (it is used with method signature.)

#### Programs:
- See this programs:
   - _3_Throws_Try_Catch.exceptionhandling2: Test1.java, Test2.java
     - [Test1.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2Fexceptionhandling2%2FTest1.java)
     - [Test2.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2Fexceptionhandling2%2FTest2.java)
  


### What is difference between throw & throws keyword ?
1. 
   - "throw" keyword is used to create an exception object manually.
   - "throws" keyword is used to inform that this method can raise listed type of exceptions. "throws" by pass the exception.


2. 
   - "throw" keyword is used in method body.
   - "throws" keyword is used with method signature.


3. 
   - "throw" keyword is able to allow only one exception class name at one time.
   - "throws" keyword is able to allow more than one exception class name at one time.


4.
   - "throw" keyword is mainly used for unchecked exceptions.
   - "throws" keyword is mainly used for checked exceptions.


5. 
   - "throw" keyword is followed by an instance. (e.g. throw new ArithmeticException(); )
   - "throws" keyword is followed by class. (e.g. throws FileNotFoundException)



#### Note: 
- we can handle the exception using the `throws` keyword. 
- Only `try-catch` block handle the exception.  

### try-catch block :-
- `try block` :- try block is used to provide the risky code i.e the code in which there are chances for exception.
- Syntax of try block :
   ```java
   try
   {
           ....
   }
   ```

- `catch block` :- catch block is used ot provide maintenance code or alternative code to handle the exceptions or simply say exception handling code.
- Syntax of catch block :
   ```java
   catch(ExceptionClassName e)  // multiple exception possible - feature of java 7
   {
           ....
   }
   ```

#### Programs:
- See this programs:
  - _3_Throws_Try_Catch/conceptPrograms: Test1, Test2, Test3, Test4 [Test1.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2FconceptPrograms%2FTest1.java),
[Test2.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2FconceptPrograms%2FTest2.java),
[Test3.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2FconceptPrograms%2FTest3.java),
[Test4.java](_3_Throws_Try_Catch%2FconceptPrograms%2FTest4.java)



#### try-catch flow :-
- try block will be executed completely if there is no exception in try block. But if there is exception in try block then after that exception line it will skip the below code.
- catch block will be executed only when there is an exception in try block. If there is no exception in try block then catch block will not execute.
- We can use multiple catch blocks with one try block.


### Different ways to print exception :-
1. System.out.println(e.getMessage()); //will display only message
2. System.out.println(e); //will display exception class name and message
3. e.printStackTrace(); //will display exception class name, message and line numbers


#### Note:
- if you know the proper exception then mentioned that exception class name instead of using parent `Exception` class, because at the end, `Exception` class find which exception has that exception error and then the actual exception class send to that exception class.  


```
                this is exception object

                      e : e is refe this object
                 ____________   
                /            \
               /              \
              /                \
              \                /
               \              /
                \____________/
                
           in this object total 3 things are stored
                1.) Exception class name
                2.) Message / Desc
                3.) Stack Trace (Line number)
           
           System.out.println(e.getMessage());
           System.out.println(e);
           e.printStackTrace();         
           
                       e  : print (1.) and (2.) only => Exception class name and Message / Desc
           e.getMessage() : print (2.) only  => Message / Desc  
      e.printStackTrace() : print (1.), (2.), (3.)  
                
                 
```