## Comparable & Comparator in Java

### Comparable
- Comparable is an interface which is present in `java.lang` package
- It contains only one method i.e. compareTo()

#### Prototype : 
`public int compareTo(Object obj)`
- obj1.compareTo(obj2);
- +ve - if obj1 is greater than obj2
- -ve - if obj2 is greater than obj1
- 0 - if obj1 is equals to obj2


- String and all wrapper classes (Integer, Long, Float etc.) implements Comparable interface.

#### See Programs
Demo
- [Test1.java](_12%2Fdemo%2FTest1.java)
- [Test2.java](_12%2Fdemo%2FTest2.java)
- [Test3.java](_12%2Fdemo%2FTest3.java)

#### Problems with Comparable interface :-
1. By implementing Comparable interface, the properties of Original class will get changed.
2. By this way we can sort only for one entity for example we can sort the student object either with name or rollno at one time. Then we need to make again one more original class to sort rollno or name.
- (To remove above problems java provided one interface i.e. `Comparator`)

### Comparator
- Comparator is an interface which is present in `java.util` package.
- Comparator interface contains 2 methods :-
1. `public int compare(Object obj1, Object obj2)`
2. `public boolean equals(Object obj)`

#### See Programs:
ComparatorDemo
- [Test4.java](_12%2Fcomparatordemo%2FTest4.java)

CasesDemo
- [Test1.java](_12%2Fcasesdemo%2FTest1.java)

### TASK 
- WAP to compare and add different elements according to length and alphabetical order

For example :
- A, B, AA, BB, AAA, BBB, AAAA

See Program:
- [Test.java](_12%2Ftask%2FTest.java)


### What is difference between Comparable & Comparator interface ?
1. 
   - Comparable interface contains compareTo() method.
   - Comparator interface contains compare() method.


2. 
   - Comparable interface is present in `java.lang` package.
   - Comparator interface is present in `java.util` package.


3. 
   - By using Comparable interface original class properties will get changed.
   - By using Comparator interface original class properties will not be changed.


4. 
   - Comparable interface can sort only one entity.
   - Comparator interface can sort multiple entities.


5. 
   - Comparable interface is used to implicit sorting.
   - Comparator interface is used for explicit sorting.
   