
## AWT & Swing in Java

### GUI Part :-
- GUI is Graphical User Interface
- Java Provides following GUI Part :-
  1. AWT (Abstract Window Toolkit)
  2. Swing
  3. Applet
  4. javafx
     
### AWT
- AWT is an API used to develop Desktop Based or Window Based Application.
- AWT has a lot of disadvantages and due to this, Swing API was created on the basis of AWT.

### Swing :-
- Swing is also a GUI part which is used to create Desktop Based Applications

#### Difference between AWT & Swing :-
1. 
    - AWT :- AWT provides heavy-weight components
    - Swing : Swing provides light-weight components


2. 
    - AWT : AWT is old framework
    - Swing : Swing is new framework


3. 
    - AWT : To use AWT we have to import java.awt package
    - Swing : To use Swing we have to import java.swing package


4. 
    - AWT : AWT provides less number of components (GUI controls).
    - Swing : Swing provides more number of components (GUI controls).


5. 
    - AWT : AWT is not portable.
    - Swing : Swing is portable.


6. 
    - AWT : AWT requires more code for control functionalities
    - Swing : Swing requires less code for control functionalities


7. 
    - AWT : AWT does not support look and feel pluggable
    - Swing : Swing supports look and feel pluggable
   
#### Hierarchy of AWT & Swing :-
    
- Netbeans Basic Thing You Should Know :-
   
- note: `check diagram in the pdf...total 3 pages`



-   Task :-
   

#### NOTE:
- I did not write all programs here.
- Also, I have code file in zip folder with mine. 
- I did not try to make it by own, because of my priority and lack of time.
- Net Beans, Eclipse are using during video lecture.
- I prefer Intellij.