### See Programs:

#### Searching Elements in an array Programs

This 2 programs are done in previous part of the chapter

1. WAP to find the maximum and minimum elements in an array: [MinMaxElement.java](_6%2FMinMaxElement.java)
2. WAP to find the second largest element in an array : [SecondLargestElement.java](_6%2FSecondLargestElement.java)

Let's move ahead and do more programs

3. WAP to find the duplicate element in an array.

   - Way-1: Sort the array and match i and i++ position element : [FindDuplicate1.java](_7%2FFindDuplicate1.java)
   - Way-2: Directly match the element with the whole list : [FindDuplicate2.java](_7%2FFindDuplicate2.java)
  
 
4. WAP to find the first duplicate element in an array.
   - [FirstDuplicateElement.java](_7%2FFirstDuplicateElement.java)


5. WAP to check how many even and odd numbers are there in an array.
   - [CheckNoOfEvenOdds.java](_7%2FCheckNoOfEvenOdds.java)
   - [CheckNoOfEvenOdds2.java](_7%2FCheckNoOfEvenOdds2.java)


6. WAP to find the common elements in 2 arrays.
   - [DuplicateElementsInTwoArrays.java](_7%2FDuplicateElementsInTwoArrays.java)


7. WAP to insert an element in an array at specific index position.
   - insert any where between and last element will be removed : [Insertion1.java](_7%2FInsertion1.java)
   - insert but will not remove the last element: [Insertion2.java](_7%2FInsertion2.java)


8. WAP to delete an element in an array at specific index position.
   - [Deletion.java](_7%2FDeletion.java)


### Note:
- If you have a big list then all array programs will take long time. (Disadvantage of an Array)
  - That's why we are using collection.
- We can increase or decrease the size of the array. (Disadvantage of an Array)
- Also, read notes inside the program. (Over there all mention points are the disadvantages of the array.)


----

### Task: 
TicTacToe Game : Use array and decrease number of lines and optimize code
- last time we made this game project.
- in this game, we make jb button again and again.
- so number of lines increase a lot.
- also, in if condition, we do same thing again and again.
- in restart game, we do same thing again and again.
