### String class constructors in Java
- see program 
  - `Test1.java` : click on String and see all the methods and the constructor.
      ```java
      String str = new String .......... here see so many constructor
      ```

### String class methods in Java

#### Validating User Input
- `length()` 
  - It provides the int value i.e. no of characters in the String.
  - return in integer.
  - giving number of characters.
  - start with 1,2,3...
- `isEmpty()` - Checks weather string is empty or not, if empty it will return true else false.
- `trim()` - It is used to remove the front or back side spaces. e.g. form filling - name


- see program
  - `Test2.java`


#### Comparing two strings :-
- `equals()` - it compares the 2 strings and retruns the boolean value
- `equalsIgnoreCase()` - it compares the 2 strings but ignores the uppercase and lowercase
- `compareTo()` - It compares the 2 strings lexicographically
- `compareToIgnoreCase()`


#### Concatenation of two strings :-
- '+' operator
- `concat()` - It concat the 2 strings


#### Get sub-string from String :-
- `subString()` - It will return the sub string according to the provided starting and ending index positions
- `subSequence()` - It will return the CharSequence according to the provided starting and ending index positions


#### Replacing or Removing characters :-
- `replace()` - It will replace the string according to provided another string
- `replaceFirst()` - It will replace the first string.
- `replaceAll()` - it will replace all the strings.

#### Searching characters in string :-
- `indexOf()` - It will return the index position of provided character
- `lastIndexOf()` - It will return the index position of provided character from last position
- `contains()` - It will return boolean value, true if string present else false
- `charAt()` - It will return the index position of provided character
- `endsWith()` - It will return boolean value if string is matched from ending
- `startsWith()`- It will return boolean value if string is matched from starting

#### Case conversion methods :-
- `toLowerCase()` - It will convert the string into lowercase
- `toUpperCase()` - It will convert the string into uppercase

#### Type conversion methods :-
- `valueOf()` - It will convert other data type into string (it is static method)
- `toCharArray()` - It will convert the string into character array

#### Other method :
- `split()` - It will split the string according to provided regex


- see program
  - `Test3.java`


### Interview Question
1. What is the difference between equals() and == ?
- The difference between `equals()` and `==` in Java (or many other programming languages) lies in what they are comparing:

  1. **`==` (Reference Comparison)**:
     - The `==` operator checks whether two references point to the **same memory location** or object. In other words, it checks if two variables reference the exact same object in memory.
     - For primitive types (like `int`, `char`, `double`), `==` compares the actual values directly.

   **Example**:
   ```java
   String a = new String("hello");
   String b = new String("hello");
   System.out.println(a == b); // Output: false (different memory locations)
   ```

  2. **`equals()` (Content Comparison)**:
     - The `equals()` method is used to compare the **content** of two objects. It checks if the values within the objects are **equal** according to the logic defined in the `equals()` method of the class.
     - The default `equals()` method in the `Object` class compares references (like `==`), but most classes (like `String`, `Integer`, etc.) override `equals()` to compare the actual content.

   **Example**:
   ```java
   String a = new String("hello");
   String b = new String("hello");
   System.out.println(a.equals(b)); // Output: true (same content)
   ```

### Summary:
- `==`: Compares **memory references** (or values for primitive types).
- `equals()`: Compares the **contents** of the objects, if properly overridden.