## Networking Introduction

#### Networking
- Networking is the process of connecting two or more systems in order to achieve data sharing or resource sharing.

#### Types of networking
1. `LAN (Local Area Network)` : Small building like offices, college labs etc.
2. `PAN (Personal Area Network)` : For personal use within 10-12 meters.
3. `MAN (Metropolitan Area Network)` : It is within the city like banks within the city.
4. `WAN (Wide Area Network)` : It is within the states or countries.


- Note: The safest network is a `LAN` and the widest network is ` WAN`.

#### To establish networking we needs basically 3 things :-
1. Hardware : systems, routers, switch, hub etc.
2. Media : fibre optics, wires, wireless etc. (Media means `to transfer data`)
3. Software : any programming language (like java).

### Terms used in networking :-
**1. IP Address :**
   - IP Address full form is Internet Protocol Address.
   - IP address is the unique integer or decimal value which is provided by ISP (Internet Service Provider) whenever the system is connected to the network.
   - IP Address allows the computer to send or receive data
   - IP Address confirms to send or receive the data to the accurate system.
   - IP Address are of 4 types :-
      public, private, static, dynamic
   - Command to get the IP Address of my system :- `ipconfig `or `ipconfig/all`. (we need to check IP4 =>    `IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 10.0.0.211`)
-
    ```
      Connection-specific DNS Suffix  . :
       Link-local IPv6 Address . . . . . : fe80::b1c1:b4f1:249d:54d4%4
       IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : 192.168.56.1
       Subnet Mask . . . . . . . . . . . : 255.255.255.0
       Default Gateway . . . . . . . . . :
    
    ```

**2. Port Number :**
   - Port number is the unique integer value for each and every service or process which is executing in the system.
   - For example : 80 - HTTP, 3306 - MySQL etc.
   - Command to get the Port number : `netstat -ano`
- 
    ```
        here ip address: 10.0.0.211
        port number: 51902
        
        Proto  Local Address          Foreign Address        State
         TCP    10.0.0.211:51902       a23-222-17-72:https    ESTABLISHED
    ```
   - PID : process id
   - Port number and PID both are different(looks like same).


- Note : IP address vs Port Number
   
  - IP Address: unique integer value of the System.
  - Port number: unique integer value of the Process within the system. 



**3. Protocol :**
   - It is the set of rules and regulations for data transfer or communication.
   - There are a lot of protocols for example : 
   - IP (Internet Protocol), 
   - TCP (Transmission Control Protocol), 
   - UDP (User Datagram Protocol), 
   - HTTP (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol), 
   - FTP (File Transfer Protocol), 
   - SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol), 
   - POP3 (Post Office Protocol 3), 
   - SSH (Secure Shell) 
   - etc.

- NOTE :-
  1. Java provides a package i.e. `java.net` for TCP and UDP
  2. Classes used for TCP : Socket, ServerSocket etc
  3. Classes used for UDP : DatagramPacket, DatagramSocket etc
  4. Other important classes used for networking are : URL, URLConnection, HTTPConnection etc.



**4. MAC Address :**
   - MAC Address is the unique integer value for the machine which is embedded in the Network Card (Network Interface Card) at the time of manufacturing.
   - MAC Address cannot be changed (But we can change the IP Address).
   - MAC Address is also known as Physical Address.


**5. Socket :**
   - Socket is the end-point of the communication.
   - Socket is the buffer which is the combination of IP Address, Port Number & Protocol.
   - Socket is an object from which we can read or write the data.


### What is difference between IP Address and Port Number ?
- IP address is the unique integer value of the system in the network.
- Port number is the unique integer value of the services or process running is the current/present system.

### What is difference between TCP & UDP ?
1. 
   - TCP :- It is connection oriented
   - UDP :- It is connection-less


2. 
   - TCP :- It is fast
   - UDP :- It is slow
      
### What is difference between IP Address & MAC Address ?
1.
   - IP address is the unique integer value of the system in the network.
   - MAC Address is the unique integer value for the system which is embedded in the Network Card (Network Interface Card) at the time of manufacturing.
  

2.
   - IP Address is provided by ISP
   - MAC Address is provided by the manufacturing companies


3.
   - IP Address can be changed
   - MAC Address cannot be changed


### We can create 2 types of applications in java :-
1. Standalone Applications (Desktop Applications) :
   - Standalone applications are those which does not use client-server architecture, and they are executed only on one system. 
   - For examples : TicTacToe game, Editor (Notepad), Billing Software, Car-Racing Game etc.


2. Distributed Applications (Client-Server Project) :
   - Distributed applications are those which use client-server architecture, and they can communicate with multiple systems. 
   - For examples :- Chat Server, Banking etc.
   - Java is the best for making this kind of application. 

### Note :
- To prepare distributed applications java has provided multiple technologies i.e.
1. Socket Programming
2. RMI : Remote Method Invocation
3. CORBA
4. EJB : Enterprice Java Bean
5. Web Services (like REST, SOAP services)
- etc.
