
## User-Defined Packages in Java

### User Defined Package :-
- The package created by the user or developer according to the project requirements is known as User Defined Package
- Syntax :
  - `package package_name;`
  - `package package_name.sub_package_name;`
- Naming Convention for Package :-
1. Same 4 rules as an identifiers
   - package name - int value can use but not at the first (better do not use).
   - can not provide spaces.
   - `_` and `$` symbol ca be used.
   - can not use reserved keywords
2. - company domain in reverse order (do not include `www`)
   - client name
   - project name
   - module name
- For example :- 
  - `www.vrajmandal.in`
  - ICICI (client)
  - Loan (Project name)
  - Home Loan, Car Loan, Jewellery Loan etc.  (Sub-package)
  - package name:  
    - `in.vrajmandal.icici.loan.home_loan`
    - `in.vrajmandal.icici.loan.car_loan`
  - Program :-
         
  ```
  - Step 1 :-
       
    package pkg;
    class PackageDemo
    {
       public static void main(String[] args)
       {
          System.out.println("hello");
       }
    }
       
  - Step 2: for compile the program
       
     1.) javac -d . PackageDemo.java 
          -  `d` represents the directory
          -  `.` represents the current directory
     2.) javac -d C:\aaa PackageDemo.java   (giving path to create .class file at another place)
             
  - Step 3:-
     1.) java pkg.PackageDemo
     2.) set classpath=C:\aaa     (if you create file in different directory then use this)
        java pkg.PackageDemo 

  ```


- `******check diagram from the pdf.*******`


- Points to remember :-
  1. Package declaration must be the first statement in java program.
  2. There can be only one package statement.

####  How to import packages :-
- There are 3 ways to import packages in java :-

  1. by using import package_name.ClassName;
     - It will import only particular class file from the provided package name.
  2. by using import package_name.*;
     - It will import all the classes from provided package name.
  3. by using fully qualified ClassName;
  
#### Points to remember :-
1. We can use any number of import statement.
2. import statement will come immediate after the package statement.
3. import statement does not load the class in the memory, it only provides the accessibility to use the classes.
4. If we use import statement, then only class will be imported but sub-packages will not import.

#### Interview Question :-
1. What is difference between set path and set classpath ?
   - By using `set path=C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_45\bin`, System will understand java commands with the help of path variable.
   - By using `set classpath=----`, it will set the classpath where the `.class`/`.jar` file is saved.


- `***********check diagram from the pdf.*********`

   Task :- `see in pdf `


--------------
- `here in this file, i did not write program...for creating packaging and all things...`