### Object Creation Explanation in Java

#### How Objects are created :-

```java
class Animall {
    int age;
    int legs;
}

class AnimalManin {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Animall buzo = new Animall();
    }
}
```
- `check diagram in pdf`

1. When We compile the program i.e. `javac AnimalMain.java`
   - Compiler will check the syntax and if syntax is correct then it will generate `.class` files (no of `.class` files generated depends on the no of classes we have created).
2. When we run the program i.e. java AnimalMain
   - 2.1 `AnimalMain.class` file will be loaded in JVM memory area i.e. in Method Area
   - 2.2 An object of `java.lang.Class` class will be created in `Heap Area` in which AnimalMain class metadata will be stored.
   - 2.3 Now Main Method will execute and for this JVM will create a new thread known as main thread.
   - 2.4 As soon as main thread is created then JVM will create main stack in `stack area.`
   - 2.5 Now first line in main method will execute i.e. `Animal ob=new Animal();` now `Animal.class` file will load in method area and a new object of `java.lang.Class` class is created in `heap area` in which metadata of Animal class will be stored.
   - 2.6 Now there is new keyword so new object creation process will start. JVM will instruct `heap manager` to create an object of Animal class but heap manager will ask for object size to JVM. Then JVM will calculate the size of object according to the number of instance variables that are declared in Animal class and this size will be taken by heap manager and heap manager will create an object in heap area
   - 2.7 As soon as heap manager creates an object, a unique integer value will be assigned to the object which is known as "`hashcode`"
   - 2.8 This `hascode` value will be provided to the JVM and JVM will convert this `hascode value` into hexadecimal form and this hexadecimal value is known as `reference value`.
   - `Note`: hashcode never refer object's address. Hashcode is just unique value. 
   - 2.9. Now this hexadecimal value will be assigned to the variable which is known as `reference variable`.
   - 2.10 Now object will be initialized that means all instance variables will be assigned by default values or by their original values.

```java
class AnimalManin {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Animall buzo = new Animall();
        System.out.println(buzo);
        // Output: Animall@53d8d10a - this is hexadecimal value
        System.out.println(buzo.hashCode());
        // Output: 1406718218 - this is hashcode value - unique value
       /* java has made algorithm
        * with help of the algorithm,
        * heap-manager gives uniques int value
        * */

        System.out.println("----------------");
        Animall cat = new Animall();
        System.out.println(cat);
        // Output: Animall@e9e54c2 - this is hexadecimal value
        System.out.println(cat.hashCode());
        // Output: 245257410 - this is hashcode value - unique value       
        /* java has made algorithm
        * with help of the algorithm,
        * heap-manager gives uniques int value
        * */

    }
}
```

Use this code in terminal after `javap` and see result
   - `java.lang.Class` :- It represents the classes and interfaces which are used in running java application
   - `java.lang.Object` :- This is the **_Parent Class_** of all the classes in java.
     - When we create any class than that class will inherit Object class either directly or indirectly
   - `java.lang.reflect.Method`
   - `java.lang.reflect.Constructor`

```java
/* This (any) class directly inherit the Object class 
 * So, compiler will do automatically
 * like this, class Test extends Object {.....]
 * */
class Test {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        
    }
}

/* But if we have class Test extends Abc 
 * then in this case, Abc will extends the Object class
 * Compiler do it automatically
 * */
class Abc extends Object{

}
class Test extends Abc{
   public static void main(String[] args) {

   }
}
/* Any class directly or indirectly, 
 * inherit the Object class.
 * */
```